- [Instructor] The inversion of control pattern
is fundamental to the operation
of the Spring framework.
It is critical for users of the Spring framework
to understand not only the benefits
of inversion of control
and dependency injection in general,
but also to understand the consequences
of using this pattern.
Inversion of control adds a new dimension
to how you write your code.
The container itself
maintains all of the classes
including the dependency classes.
This is a critical aspect of IoC.
While the containers handles the maintenance
of these objects,
your business logic doesn't have to.
Objects are injected at runtime,
usually during a startup operation.
This allows the container
to maintain the objects
and hand them as dependencies
to other objects within that runtime.
An object that accepts these dependencies
usually does this through construction
of the object itself
or through setter injection.
This is a topic
that can cause some discussion.
But the rule of thumb is this:
if your class cannot operate
without the dependency,
it should be injected via constructors.
If your class can treat the dependency
as optional or can accept
multiple but variable concrete instances
of the dependency,
then it can be injected via setter injection.
So let's take a look
at traditional dependency management graph,
so we can visualize the difference,
especially with some kind of complexity.
So we will start with a class called main.
Now, in the construction of main,
you have two dependent classes.
So you need to construct those classes
when you construct main.
However, in constructing one of those dependent classes,
you need another class.
So you need to construct that as well
back up in main.
And finally, that class has two dependent classes,
so you need to construct those as well
when you construct main.
So when you're doing the construction of main,
you're constructing five additional classes
in order to get this dependency graph.
So we're now four layers deep
of object construction
just to create a single class.
This level of complexity exists
in many Java
or any other object oriented language
programs that exist today.
Now, for the IoC container model,
we're going to use the same dependency graph.
However this time,
we're going to start with the IoC container
and our main class.
Now the IoC container
manages every object in our graph.
So once again,
main has two dependencies,
and instead of constructing them,
it takes them as constructor arguments
and the IoC container
handles that injection
at object creation for main.
Now once again,
the IoC created our dependent class,
but that had a dependency.
It once again handled the injection
via constructor argument,
and handed that object to its dependency.
Now once again,
that object has two dependencies.
And just like before,
the IoC container hands those dependencies.
Now, you may immediately see
that we have an order in which
our dependencies must be created
to make this model work.
And with Spring,
we don't have to worry about that.
As we will see,
the framework handles all of that for us,
so what you will see
is that this complexity actually becomes a simplification,
because we only configure these classes once
no matter how many times that dependency is used
and once we create it,
we don't have to worry about it again.
So let's take a little time
and talk about why this is an important topic
when dealing with complex applications.
Inversion of control
and dependency injection
reduce the noise in your code.
If you have a class
that's used in several places in your application,
that becomes even more clear,
because you can focus on your business code
and not constructing and managing those dependencies
multiple times throughout your application.
By removing construction of objects
within your code,
you reduce coupling.
You simply consume the objects
and they become less coupled to object creation.
This becomes even better
if your code to interfaces.
But more on that in a moment.
DI and IoC also reduce the bugs that arise
during object creation.
We all know how repetitive behavior in code is handled,
copy and paste.
If a bug exists,
you have now copied it
into two places.
But if you modify that behavior
to only one spot,
and don't in the other,
you still have the bug.
By allowing the IoC to handle construction,
you can focus on the API contract
of your dependencies.
This allows interfaces
to be dependencies
instead of concrete objects.
Again, this allows you to have cleaner code
that is less coupled to your dependent objects.